GDAP Documentation (beta APIs) (#16193)
microsoftgraph/microsoft-graph-docs: api-reference/beta/resources/delegatedadminrelationship.md

doc_type: resourcePageType
---

# delegatedAdminRelationship resource type

Namespace: microsoft.graph

[!INCLUDE [beta-disclaimer](../../includes/beta-disclaimer.md)]

Represents a delegated admin relationship between a partner and customer.

## Methods
|Method|Return type|Description|
|:---|:---|:---|
|[Create delegatedAdminRelationship](../api/tenantrelationship-post-delegatedadminrelationships.md)|[delegatedAdminRelationship](delegatedadminrelationship.md)|Create a new **delegatedAdminRelationship** object.|
|[List delegatedAdminRelationships](../api/tenantrelationship-list-delegatedadminrelationships.md)|[delegatedAdminRelationship](delegatedadminrelationship.md) collection|Get a list of the **delegatedAdminRelationship** objects and their properties.|
|[Get delegatedAdminRelationship](../api/delegatedadminrelationship-get.md)|[delegatedAdminRelationship](delegatedadminrelationship.md)|Read the properties and relationships of a **delegatedAdminRelationship** object.|
|[Update delegatedAdminRelationship](../api/delegatedadminrelationship-update.md)|[delegatedAdminRelationship](delegatedadminrelationship.md)|Update the properties of a **delegatedAdminRelationship** object.|

> |[Delete delegatedAdminRelationship](../api/delegatedadminrelationship-delete.md)|None|Deletes a **delegatedAdminRelationship** object.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|[Delete delegatedAdminRelationship](../api/delegatedadminrelationship-delete.md)|None|Delete a **delegatedAdminRelationship** object.|
```

|activatedDateTime|DateTimeOffset|The date and time in ISO 8601 format and in UTC time when the relationship became active. Read-only.|
|createdDateTime|DateTimeOffset|The date and time in ISO 8601 format and in UTC time when the relationship was created. Read-only.|
|customer|[delegatedAdminRelationshipCustomerParticipant](../resources/delegatedadminrelationshipcustomerparticipant.md)|The display name and unique identifier of the customer of the relationship. This is configured either by the partner at the time the relationship is created or by the system after the customer approves the relationship. Cannot be changed by the customer.|
|displayName|String|The display name of the relationship used for ease of identification. Must be unique across *all* delegated admin relationships of the partner. This is set by the partner only when the relationship is in the `created` status and cannot be changed by the customer.|
|duration|Duration|The duration of the relationship in ISO 8601 format. Must be a value between `P1D` and `P2Y` inclusive. This is set by the partner only when the relationship is in the `created` status and cannot be changed by the customer.|

> |endDateTime|DateTimeOffset|The date and time in ISO 8601 format and in UTC time when the **status** of relationship will either be `terminated` or `expired`. Calculated as `endDateTime = activatedDateTime + duration`. Read-only.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|endDateTime|DateTimeOffset|The date and time in ISO 8601 format and in UTC time when the **status** of relationship changes to either `terminated` or `expired`. Calculated as `endDateTime = activatedDateTime + duration`. Read-only.|
```

|id|String|The unique identifier of the relationship. Read-only. Inherited from [entity](../resources/entity.md).|
|lastModifiedDateTime|DateTimeOffset|The date and time in ISO 8601 format and in UTC time when the relationship was last modified. Read-only.|

> |status|delegatedAdminRelationshipStatus|The status of the relationship. Read Only. The possible values are: `activating`, `active`, `approvalPending`, `approved`, `created`, `expired`, `expiring`, `terminated`, `terminating`, `terminationRequested`. Supports `$orderBy`.|

Reviewer 2: `unknownFutureValue` may be unusable and not a real status, but we need it here to tell customers that delegatedAdminRelationshipStatus is an evolvable enum. That way you can add future members to this enum and customers won't have breaking changes - and they can handle those changes safely. Please see more [Handling future members in evolvable enumerations](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/best-practices-concept#handling-future-members-in-evolvable-enumerations).
```suggestion
|status|delegatedAdminRelationshipStatus|The status of the relationship. Read Only. The possible values are: `activating`, `active`, `approvalPending`, `approved`, `created`, `expired`, `expiring`, `terminated`, `terminating`, `terminationRequested`, `unknownFutureValue`. Supports `$orderBy`.|
```

> |status|delegatedAdminRelationshipStatus|The status of the relationship. The possible values are: `activating`, `active`, `approvalPending`, `approved`, `created`, `expired`, `expiring`, `terminated`, `terminating`, `terminationRequested`, `unknownFutureValue`. After the relationship status is set to `approvalPending`, the status is read-only. Supports `$orderBy`.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|status|delegatedAdminRelationshipStatus|The status of the relationship. Read Only. The possible values are: `activating`, `active`, `approvalPending`, `approved`, `created`, `expired`, `expiring`, `terminated`, `terminating`, `terminationRequested`. Supports `$orderBy`.|
```
Note that the status is *always* read-only. Also, I don't know if we need to mention "unknownFutureValue" here.

## Relationships
|Relationship|Type|Description|
|:---|:---|:---|
|accessAssignments|[delegatedAdminAccessAssignment](../resources/delegatedadminaccessassignment.md) collection|The access assignments associated with the delegated admin relationship.|
|operations|[delegatedAdminRelationshipOperation](../resources/delegatedadminrelationshipoperation.md) collection|The long running operations associated with the delegated admin relationship.|

> |requests|[delegatedAdminRelationshipRequest](../resources/delegatedadminrelationshiprequest.md) collection|The requests associated with the delegated admin relationship. Supports `$expand`|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|requests|[delegatedAdminRelationshipRequest](../resources/delegatedadminrelationshiprequest.md) collection|The requests associated with the delegated admin relationship.|
```
Support for $expand is yet to be added.

## JSON representation

> The following is a JSON representation of the resource.

Reviewer: This needs fixing to remove actual values.

---
title: "delegatedAdminRelationship resource type"

> description: "Represents a delegated admin relationship between a partner and customer."

Reviewer 2: Hi @deepakku-work, this detailed information is excellent, but this is the wrong file to include it. Let us work to add it to an **Overview** article that will accompany this set of API docs. We'll not manage to get that done in this iteration, but we can follow up and see if we can get it ready and published by next week.

> description: "Represents a delegated admin relationship between a partner and customer."

Reviewer: That works. Thanks.

author: "adtangir"
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.prod: "directory-management"
doc_type: resourcePageType
---

# delegatedAdminRelationship resource type

Namespace: microsoft.graph

[!INCLUDE [beta-disclaimer](../../includes/beta-disclaimer.md)]

> Represents a delegated admin relationship between a partner and customer.

Reviewer: I think we need a little more content here to describe what a delegated admin relationship is.

> Represents a delegated admin relationship between a partner and customer.

Reviewer 2: Bumped @adtangir

## Methods
|Method|Return type|Description|
|:---|:---|:---|
|[Create delegatedAdminRelationship](../api/tenantrelationship-post-delegatedadminrelationships.md)|[delegatedAdminRelationship](delegatedadminrelationship.md)|Create a new **delegatedAdminRelationship** object.|
|[List delegatedAdminRelationships](../api/tenantrelationship-list-delegatedadminrelationships.md)|[delegatedAdminRelationship](delegatedadminrelationship.md) collection|Get a list of the **delegatedAdminRelationship** objects and their properties.|
|[Get delegatedAdminRelationship](../api/delegatedadminrelationship-get.md)|[delegatedAdminRelationship](delegatedadminrelationship.md)|Read the properties and relationships of a **delegatedAdminRelationship** object.|
|[Update delegatedAdminRelationship](../api/delegatedadminrelationship-update.md)|[delegatedAdminRelationship](delegatedadminrelationship.md)|Update the properties of a **delegatedAdminRelationship** object.|
|[Delete delegatedAdminRelationship](../api/delegatedadminrelationship-delete.md)|None|Deletes a **delegatedAdminRelationship** object.|

## Properties
|Property|Type|Description|
|:---|:---|:---|

> |id|String|The unique identifier of the relationship. This is set by the system and cannot be set by the caller.|

Reviewer: For the sentence "This is set by the system and cannot be set by the caller.", can you check how the others have mentioned it? I'm thinking just calling out "Read-only" should be good enough.

> |displayName|String|The display name of the relationship. This is primarily meant for ease of identification. This is set by the partner and cannot be changed by the customer, and cannot be changed by the caller once the relationship is in the 'approvalPending' status or beyond. Must be unique across all relationships of the partner.|

Reviewer: The display name of the relationship. This is primarily meant for ease of identification. Must be unique across all relationships of the partner. This is set by the partner (only when the relationship is in the "created" status) and cannot be changed by the customer.

> |duration|Duration|The duration (ISO 8601) of the relationship. This is set by the partner and cannot be changed by the customer, and once the relationship is in the 'approvalPending' status or beyond. Must be a value between P1D and P2Y inclusive.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|duration|Duration|The duration (ISO 8601) of the relationship. Must be a value between P1D and P2Y inclusive. This is set by the partner (only when the relationship is in the "created" status) and cannot be changed by the customer.|
```

> |customer|[delegatedAdminRelationshipCustomerParticipant](../resources/delegatedadminrelationshipcustomerparticipant.md)|The information of the customer of the relationship. This is set either by the partner during relationship creation, or by the system after customer approval of the relationship, and cannot be changed by the customer, and by the partner once the relationship is in the 'approvalPending' status or beyond.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|customer|[delegatedAdminRelationshipCustomerParticipant](../resources/delegatedadminrelationshipcustomerparticipant.md)|The information of the customer of the relationship. This is set either by the partner at the time of relationship creation or by the system after customer approval of the relationship if the partner did not originally set it. This cannot be changed by the customer.|
```

|accessDetails|[delegatedAdminAccessDetails](../resources/delegatedadminaccessdetails.md)|The access details of the relationship.|

> |status|delegatedAdminRelationshipStatus|The status of the relationship. The possible values are: `activating`, `active`, `approvalPending`, `approved`, `created`, `expired`, `expiring`, `terminated`, `terminating`, `terminationRequested`.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|status|delegatedAdminRelationshipStatus|The status of the relationship. The possible values are: `activating`, `active`, `approvalPending`, `approved`, `created`, `expired`, `expiring`, `terminated`, `terminating`, `terminationRequested`. This is set by the system and cannot be set by the caller.|
```

|createdDateTime|DateTimeOffset|The date and time (ISO 8601) at which this relationship was created in UTC. This is set by the system and cannot be set by the caller.|
|lastModifiedDateTime|DateTimeOffset|The date and time (ISO 8601) at which this relationship was last modified in UTC. This is set by the system and cannot be set by the caller.|
|activatedDateTime|DateTimeOffset|The date and time (ISO 8601) at which this relationship became active in UTC. This is set by the system and cannot be set by the caller.|

> |endDateTime|DateTimeOffset|The date and time (ISO 8601) at which this relationship either terminated or expired, or in the case of an active relationship, the date and time at which it is *scheduled* to expire (i.e., endDateTime = activatedDateTime + duration) in UTC. This is set by the system and cannot be set by the caller.|

Reviewer: We don't want to expose the partner participant in the contract. We'll remove it from the schema soon.

> |endDateTime|DateTimeOffset|The date and time (ISO 8601) at which this relationship either terminated or expired, or in the case of an active relationship, the date and time at which it is *scheduled* to expire (i.e., endDateTime = activatedDateTime + duration) in UTC. This is set by the system and cannot be set by the caller.|

Reviewer 2: Noted. If the schema change will be live in the next few days and the **partner** property and associated **delegatedAdminRelationshipParticipant** complex type is being deleted (and not deprecated first), then we can exclude them from this PR.

> |endDateTime|DateTimeOffset|The date and time (ISO 8601) at which this relationship either terminated or expired, or in the case of an active relationship, the date and time at which it is *scheduled* to expire (i.e., endDateTime = activatedDateTime + duration) in UTC. This is set by the system and cannot be set by the caller.|

Reviewer: Yup, thanks.

## Relationships
|Relationship|Type|Description|
|:---|:---|:---|
|accessAssignments|[delegatedAdminAccessAssignment](../resources/delegatedadminaccessassignment.md) collection|The access assignments associated with the delegated admin relationship.|

> |operations|[delegatedAdminRelationshipOperation](../resources/delegatedadminrelationshipoperation.md) collection|The long running operations associated with the delegated admin relationship.|

Reviewer: @FaithOmbongi, we haven't implemented $expand at the moment (that's still in progress). I think it's best if we add this once the implementation is complete.

> |operations|[delegatedAdminRelationshipOperation](../resources/delegatedadminrelationshipoperation.md) collection|The long running operations associated with the delegated admin relationship.|

Reviewer 2: Noted. Saw it in the API.md file though.
